https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2009/01/www09.pdf
Content (Meta-Data) The content-based approach makes use of descriptions (feature vectors) of both users and items. Users may be described by properties such as age and gender and items may be described by properties such as author and manufacturer. Typical examples of content based recommendation systems include web search engines and social matchmaking sites. •

Collaborative Filtering The collaborative filtering approach uses only the identities (IDs) of users and items. Implicit descriptions of the user and items are obtained from a (sparse) matrix of ratings of items by users [3]. We can learn about a user by the items they have previously rated and the users who have rated items in common with them. 

1. User and item metadata are integrated to produce good recommendations in a cold-start situation which will automatically become more personalised for longer term users (Section 2.1). 
2. The model for user feedback is flexible. We present three alternatives: direct observation of an absolute rating each user gives to some items, observation of a binary preference (like/ don’t like) and observation of a set of ordinal ratings on a user-specific scale (Section 2.3). 
3. A dynamics model which allows an item’s popularity, a user’s taste or a user’s personal rating scale to drift over time (Section 2.4). 4. Efficient inference is performed with a novel combination of Variational Message Passing (VMP) and Expectation Propagation (EP) (Section 3.1). 
5. Assumed-Density Filtering (ADF) can be used to give an on-line training method that can incrementally take account of new data so the system can immediately reflect the latest user preferences (Section 3.3).

One well known phenomenon where this may occur is ‘anchoring’ where a user tends to be more likely to give an item a high rating if they have recently given other items a high rating. We model these dynamics by assuming that the latent variables U, V and w (and b if we use the ordinal regression feedback model) drift with time by the addition of Gaussian noise each time step. 


Mean Average Precision
average precision reflects the probability of a more relevant product being ranked closer to the top of the recommendation list. 
precision: true positive/true positive+false positive (retrieved result)         recall: true positive/true positive + false negative (sensitivity)

NDCG normalized discounted cumulative gain
The difference between MAP and NDCG: MAP assumes binary, NDCG allows relevance scores in form of real numbers. 

推荐系统实践  冯亮
Matthew effect in recommender system: Check gini effect before and after, compare G1 and G2.

satisfaction
Prediction accuracy
Coverage：对长尾的发掘能力
Diversity
新颖性：热门程度越低，新颖性越高
serendipity: 提高推荐结果的满意度，降低推荐结果和用户历史兴趣的相似度
信任度：增加与推荐系统的交互
实时性
robustness：able to ignore noises

collaborative filtering
neighborhood-based 
1. based on user: recommend items according by finding similar users 
2. based on item: recommend items similar to what the user like before (does not reply on item features
latent factor model 隐语义模型
random walk on graph

the correlation between unpopular items is more important.
inactive users who should contribute more to the model. active users may distort the model by purchasing too many different stuff. 

Latent Factor model: 
latent class model, matrix factorisation
categorize items based on user behaviour, divide items into different dimensions, the significance of items in different categories, 

obvious feedback: rating and prediction
implicit feedback: need to select negative sample to supplement positive sample.
select items that the users did not choose and come out with a suitable negative sample.
- positive and negative samples should have similar number of items
- choose popular items in negative samples since it is more indicative of the users’ interests
add in negative sample will improve the performance of LFM

advantages of LFM: more accurate than neighbourhood methods, saves memory than userCF 
